VALORANT Patch Notes 11.08VALORANT Patch Notes 11.08VALAPALOOZA! Agents, maps, & weapon changes arrive to bring the game more in line with our long-term vision of VALORANT.Game UpdatesJOY2025-10-14T13:00:00.000ZHello everyone, this patch is a big one! The entire VALORANT team has been working to bring VALORANT closer to our long-term vision for the game, preserving our core identity as a tactical shooter while evolving toward a healthier balance between gunplay and abilities.
TL;DR- we are making adjustments across gameplay to create a healthy dialogue in combat - one where there are clear ways to respond and adapt to what the enemy team is doing round over round. These changes aim to strike a healthier balance between sharp gunplay and the unique abilities that give VALORANT its signature tactical flavor. They span agents, weapons, and maps, all aimed at rewarding strategic decision-making in VALORANT.
ALL PLATFORMS
GENERAL UPDATES
Our end of year balance patch is meant to adjust how our maps, weapons, and agents work together. The tuning pass in this patch is designed to reinforce what we call "the competitive dialogue"-the round-to-round exchange between attackers and defenders that rewards adaptation and strategy.
Over time, as player skill and ability impact have grown, uncoordinated utility has at times felt just as impactful as well-executed, strategic plays. This has reduced meaningful opportunities for counterplay and diminished the strategic depth we aim for in VALORANT. These changes are focused on striking a healthy balance between gunplay and the abilities that make VALORANT its own unique flavor of tactical shooter.
AGENT UPDATES
General
The agent updates this patch are focused around how we can support higher mastery around ability usage. We want to allow your gunplay to do the talking, while you use abilities strategically and intentionally to gain advantages. These changes should reward players who use abilities well in the right time and place. Additionally, we're also reducing the size of some of the largest ultimate abilities.
We're also aiming to create more consistency across the game's various debuffs, making it easier to build muscle memory when playing with or against effects like Nearsight, Concuss, and Stims.
Nearsights
Fade's Prowler, Omen's Paranoia, Reyna's Leer, Skye's Seeker
Nearsight radius increased from 5 >>> 7m
Concuss
Breach's Fault Line, Gekko's Wingman, Neon's Relay Bolt, Astra's Nova Pulse
Concuss duration decreased to 2.5s
Stim Unification
Brimstone's Stim Beacon, KAY/O's NULL/CMD, Reyna's Empress
Reload time modifier: 0.9
Firing rate modifier: 1.1
Weapon draw time modifier: 0.9
Spread recovery modifier: 1.1
Initiators
Initiators are intended to be the go-to agents for breaking angles and creating openings for their team. With this update, we're adjusting how often they can use their signature abilities within a round. These abilities should remain impactful, but now demand more coordination and deliberate timing to unlock their full value.
Flashes have always been a critical tool for challenging angles, and in a world with less frequent signature abilities, we want them to retain the power needed to start fights. To support that, we've increased the strength of Initiator flashes so they remain reliable tools for setting up engagements.
Breach
Fault Line
Cooldown increased from 40s → 60s
Initial windup decreased from 1.2s → 1.1s
Concuss duration decreased from 3.5s → 2.5s
Flash Point
Flash duration increased up from 2s → 2.25s
Rolling Thunder
Width decreased from 23m → 18m
Concuss duration decreased from 6s → 4s
Ult points decreased from 9 → 8
Fade
Haunt
Cooldown increased from 40s → 60s
Haunt active duration decreased 2s → 1.5s
Prowler
Visibility in Nearsight increased from 5m → 7m
Nightfall
Deafen and Marked duration decreased from 12s → 8s
Width decreased from 24m → 20m
Decay now remains a consistent 75 damage over its duration instead of decreasing over time
Gekko
General
Cooldown upon reclaim increased from 10s → 20s
Wingman
Health decreased from 80 → 60
Concuss duration decreased from 3.5s → 2.5s
Thrash<
Health decreased from 200 → 180
KAY/O
ZERO/POINT
Cooldown increased from 40s → 60s
FLASH/DRIVE
Underhand maximum flash duration increased from 1.5s → 2.25s
NULL/CMD
Updated to match Stim standardization
Increased fire rate reduced from 15% → 10%
Added standardized weapon draw time for Stims
NEW: Increased weapon draw speed by 10%
Added weapon recovery speed for Stims
Weapon recovery speed increase by 10%
Sova
Recon Bolt
Cooldown increased from 40s → 60s
Duelists
Most Duelist gameplay is in a healthy state, so we're making minor tunings. We want stuns and slows to feel rewarding when they lead to kills, so we're making adjustments that will reward precise timing and well-coordinated ability combos.
Iso
Kill Contract
Length decreased from 48m → 36m
Neon
Neon's High Gear changes allow Neon to make more significant timing breaks but will require more thoughtful resource management.
High Gear
Battery recharge decreased, time to recharge to full battery increased from 20s → 60s
Battery drain reduced, increasing sprint time with full battery from 12s → 16s
Relay Bolt
Concuss duration decreased 3.5s → 2.5s
Reyna
Leer
Health decreased from 80 → 60
Empress
Updated to match stim standardization
Reduced reload time decrease from 25% → 10%
Reduced fire rate increase from 15% → 10%
Increased weapon draw speed reduced from 25% >>> 10%
Reduced weapon recovery speed increase from 25% → 10%
Waylay
Saturate
Hindered duration decreased from 4s → 3s
Convergent Paths
Ultimate no longer spawns an afterimage of Waylay, and she is no longer pushed back when casting
Ultimate now briefly restricts aim rotation and movement speed similar to Breach's Rolling Thunder when casting
Hindered duration decreased from 7s → 6s
Initial windup decreased from 2s → 1s
Width decreased from 18m → 13.5m
Decreased movement speed buff on ult from 15% → 10%
Yoru
We've seen a notable rise in Yoru mastery, but his kit has become so effective it can overshadow other Duelists, and even some Initiators. We're making changes to make his tools a bit more selfish and encourage coordinated team plays to achieve his potential.
Gatecrash
Health decreased from 60 → 20
Audio now plays from Yoru's location when Yoru teleports or fakes it
Fakeout
Flash duration decreased from 3s → 2s
Blindside
Flash duration decreased from 1.75s → 1.5s
Flash now follows the standard flash falloff curves as other Agents. Previously, Yoru's flashes that were slightly offscreen were more effective than intended
Dimensional Drift
Yoru can no longer cast Blindside, or set up his fakeout during Dimensional Drift
He can still cast the initial Gatecrash and reactivation, as well as reactivation of Fakeouts
Raze
Blast Pack
Raze can now affected by Slows while midair with Blast Pack
If Slowed, the force from Blast Pack will be reduced, similar to how slows affect other Dashes
Controllers
Controllers were largely in a healthy state and required few changes, though some abilities have been adjusted to align with recent roster-wide updates.
Astra
Gravity Well
Fragile duration decreased from 5s → 2.5s
Cooldown increased from 45s → 60s
Nova Pulse
Concuss duration decreased from 3.5s → 2.5s
Cooldown increased from 45s → 60s
Nebula
Cooldown increased 25s → 35s
Brimstone
Stim Beacon
Updated to match stim standardization
Decreased fire rate increase from 15% → 10%
Decreased movement speed increase from 15% → 10%
Omen
Dark Cover
Cooldown increased from 30s → 40s
Paranoia
Projectile speed increased from 16 meters per second → 20 meters per second
Travel distance reduced from 32.5m → 25m
Viper
Initial contact now inflicts less Decay, reduced from 30 → 10 health
Sentinels
Sentinels are premier at defending territory, but we think there can be more room for dialogue between attackers and defensive Sentinel utilities. These adjustments aim to make it easier to take advantage of intended counterplay while sharpening each Sentinel's unique identity. We're also reducing the health of some of the tankier shootables to make them sponge less of your bullets.
Vyse
Vyse has been great at stalling and punishing enemies that move recklessly through her space but countering her has been more difficult than intended. We're adjusting Shear and Arc Rose's counterplay rules to make them simpler and more consistent for enemies to perform.
Arc Rose
Arc Rose is now destructible after the flash windup starts rather than being invulnerable.
When enemy players are successfully flashed, the audio cue and voiceline alerting Vyse and her allies is removed
Flash duration decreased from 2.25s → 2.0s
Cooldown are slightly adjusted
After destruction, cooldown is increased from 45s → 60s
Recalling the ability will now always incur a 20s cooldown
Shear
Wall Trap trigger logic has been reworked to make it easier to bait out. The wall now spawns immediately when an enemy enters and then leaves its trigger zone. Enemies will also hear an audio cue, audible only to them, when they enter the trigger zone
Razorvine
Health decreased from 40 → 20
Steel Garden
Initial windup increased from 3.4s → 4.4s
Radius decreased from 32.5m → 26m
Cypher
We're asking Cypher players to be craftier with their camera placements and focus on his role as a surveillance network master. Enemies will now see and hear a Spycam when it is nearby, similar to Vyse's Arc Rose. Trapwire has been adjusted to be less lethal, though Cypher can still convert to a kill when they are disrespected.
Spycam
Added stealthing functionality
Inactive camera will be revealed to enemies when you are within 8 meter radius of the camera, and will also have an accompanying audio tell
When the camera is active, there will be a louder persistent camera audio for enemies with a 12m range
Cooldown when destroyed is increased from 45s → 60s
Trapwire
Windup decreased
PC: 1.5s → 0.9s
Console: 2.5 → 1.9s
Players are no longer revealed after 0.5 seconds of the tripwire winding up
Players are tagged + slowed by 50% when chained
If you move more than 4m outwards from the wire it will now immediately zap you instead of pulling you back
Trapwire zap no longer concusses its target. Instead, it will slow + reveal its target for 1 second.
Killjoy
We're increasing the counterplay around Killjoy's range restricted utilities, giving enemies more tells to maneuver around unattended utilities and asking KJ to make a sharper call on when to keep her utility active and when to reposition away from them.
Turret
Cooldown when destroyed increased from 45s → 60s
Reactivation time for turret increased from 0.5s → 2s
Turret movement tagging per bullet increased 29.5% >>> 50%
NEW: Added a "windup" effect when Killjoy first re-enters the activation range
Alarmbot
Health decreased from 50 to 20
Reactivation time increased from 1s → 2s
NEW: Added a "windup" effect when Killjoy first re-enters the activation range
Deadlock
GravNet
Cooldown increased from 40s >>> 60s
Barrier Mesh
Cost reduced from 400 to 300
Health of smaller nodes decreased from 570 to 480
Sonic Sensor
Concuss duration reduced 3.5s to 2.5s
Sage
Barrier Orb
Cost reduced from 400 to 300
Fortification delay reduced from 3.3 seconds to 2 seconds
Health of Barrier segments decreased from 800 to 600
MAP UPDATES
In general, our focus for this patch was to encourage more on-site play for both teams, and to make planting for main more risky and predictable.
Pearl
Defending post-plant positions from B Main should remain a viable strategy, but it's become overly difficult for defenders to retake the site, particularly when utility is in play. To address this, we're making the following changes:
B-Site
Removed the deep sightline from B Long - This angle provided too much control over the site from a safe distance
Adjusted cover positioning on and around the site - These changes will encourage more direct engagements on the site itself
Abyss
Seeing the map evolve over the last year, we've observed many prominent strategies emerge and identified areas that could be improved, mainly focused on strengthening defensibility and improving pathing
B-Site
Site Changes - Currently both teams are having a tough time playing on-site-Defenders struggle with the initial site hold, while Attackers have difficulty holding the spike during post-plant and feel forced to plant for main. We want to take a pass at improving on-site play for both teams while also making post-plants for main more risky.
Mid
Mid Hallway Changes - We want to help open up quicker macro pathing options for both teams. We're adjusting the hallway in Mid that leads towards B Main to allow for improved flow through the map for both teams.
MAP POOL UPDATES
PEARL and SPLIT are IN the COMPETITIVE and DEATHMATCH queues.
LOTUS and ASCENT are OUT of the COMPETITIVE and DEATHMATCH queues.
WEAPONS UPDATES
Our goal is for VALORANT's gunplay to feel rewarding to master with exciting weapon choices, allowing for players to express their playstyles in how they take fights. Each weapon in our arsenal should feel they have a unique identity with their own strengths and weaknesses and though the arsenal has felt like it's overall pretty healthy, we want to make sure we continue to push on making weapons feel like competitive choices for different scenarios and round economy states.
PC ONLY
Rifles
We've noticed that tap strafing has been generally the most viable shooting style. We want the decision between tapping, bursting, and spraying to feel more balanced and a more meaningful optimization. We are making some minor adjustments to spraying rifles to make them more of a viable option for fights at the close and mid ranges.
A quick definition for those of you who may not know-
% chance of yaw switch: % chance the gun will swap horizontal recoil from one side to the other (left vs right from your crosshair)
Yaw switch time: how quickly the gun swaps horizontal recoil from one side to the other. When yaw switch time increases, this means you have more time to counteract the recoil
Protected bullet counts: how many bullets in a spray you can use before your gun has a chance of yaw switch
Bulldog
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.37s → 0.6s<
Chance for horizontal (Yaw) to switch increased from 6% → 10%
Phantom
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.37s → 0.6s
Chance for horizontal (Yaw) to switch increased from 6% → 10%
Protected bullet count increased from 6 → 8 bullets
Vandal
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.37s → 0.6s
Chance for horizontal (Yaw) to switch increased from 6% → 10%
Protected bullet count increased from 4 → 6 bullets
Submachine guns
We're making some changes to SMGs to make the Spectre a more appealing purchase over the Stinger in some scenarios, while also increasing the mastery needed to control the weapon when trying to punch up in eco rounds.
Spectre
Total spread reduced from 1.5 → 1.3
Tap Efficiency increased from 2 → 3
Tap Efficiency determines the rate that inaccuracy is accrued when re-firing prior to waiting for the complete duration of a weapon's respective Gun Recovery Time. The higher the Tap Efficiency, the lower the rate of inaccuracy accrual
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.18s → 0.28s
Protected bullet count increased from 4 → 5 bullets
Stinger
Full Auto
Total spread increased from 1.3 → 1.5
Total spread accrued faster from 7 bullets → 6 bullets
Vertical (Pitch) recoil curve increases more aggressively
Total recoil is unchanged
CONSOLE ONLY
Spectre
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.20s → 0.28s
Stinger
Full Auto
Vertical (Pitch) recoil curve increases more aggressively
Total recoil is unchanged
Bulldog
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.50s → 0.60s
Phantom
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.50s → 0.6s
Protected bullet count from yaw (horizontal) switching while spraying, increased from 5 → 8 bullets
Vandal
Horizontal (Yaw) switch time increased from 0.50s >>> 0.6s
Protected bullet count from yaw (horizontal) switching while spraying, increased from 5 → 6 bullets
COMPETITIVE UPDATES
Starting in 11.09, accounts detected for sharing must enable Riot Mobile multi-factor authentication (MFA) to access Competitive queue. Other modes will remain unaffected.
For now in 11.08, you can check out the banner in the Competitive lobby or this article for more information on the upcoming changes.
GAMEPLAY SYSTEMS UPDATES
We've improved how Placeable Abilities like Cypher's Spycam and Deadlock's Sound Sensor previews when placing in our maps. All previews will now better align to the eventual location of your ability.
We have not added or removed any placement options, we have only made our previews more accurate. This is especially so for Deadlock's Sound Sensor, which will see the biggest preview change, moving away from the current snappy behavior, to a more smooth preview.
PLAYER BEHAVIOR UPDATES
Added "Rank Manipulation" as a new reporting category.
Please use 'Rank Manipulation' instead of 'Cheating' to report players who abuse matchmaking. This encompasses behaviors we commonly know as smurfing, wintrading, and boosting.
PC ONLY
PREMIER UPDATES
Welcome to Stage V25A6!
At the end of this Stage, the top 16 teams in Invite will remain in Invite. All other Invite teams will be demoted at the start of the next Stage. These rules are listed on the Standings tab.
Demoted teams will seed into the zone they originally promoted from. Next Stage, Team Owners can change their zone in the Team Settings dropdown anytime before the team plays a match.
If your team cannot be placed into a zone at the start of the next Stage, your Team Owner will be prompted to select a zone.
Divisions other than Invite will not have demotion, and teams will still be promoted or be seeded into a division as normal at the start of next Stage.
Contender Eligibility updates
Contender Eligibility for 2025 expires at the end of Stage V25A6.
To be Contender Eligible in 2026, you must perform a qualifying action in Stage V25A6 or at any point in 2026.
Qualifying actions include:
Play a Weekly or Playoff match on a team in Contender or Invite Division.
Reach Immortal 3 or higher peak rank in Competitive.
Play in a Playoff match in Elite 5.
Contender Eligibility for 2026 expires at the end of 2026.
VCT Team Tags
Starting this patch, we're expanding the Team Tag feature to include tags for VCT teams! Pros will now have their team's tag shown before their name throughout the client - in the social panel, in lobby, in game (like the killfeed), and on the Competitive Leaderboards!
VCT team names and tags are reserved ONLY for VCT partnered teams.
Current Premier teams that have a team name and/or tag of a VCT partnered team will receive a prompt in-game for their Team Owner to change their team name.
Related ArticlesGame Updates2025-12-02T14:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.11Minor UI updates, Bug Fixes, VP gifting, and a festive surprise coming soon.Game Updates2025-11-11T14:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.10The Harbor Rework is here! Along with QoL updates, balance updates to Clove, and bug fixes.Game Updates2025-10-28T13:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.09MFA added for shared accounts, quality of life updates, and bug fixes.Game Updates2025-10-07T13:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.07bVeto is out and Skirmish is live.Game Updates2025-09-30T13:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.07Visual clarity updates, consistent information across abilities, new customs-only game mode, and more.Game Updates2025-09-16T13:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.06Yes, it’s happening. Replays are here.Game Updates2025-09-02T13:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.05Light changes as we lead up into Champions Paris.Game Updates2025-08-19T13:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.04Sage mains rejoice, new map rotation, and some more.Game Updates2025-07-29T13:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.02VALORANT is upgrading to Unreal 5, plus some bug fixes.Game Updates2025-07-14T14:00:00.000ZVALORANT Patch Notes 11.01We’re skipping this patch to prepare for the Unreal Engine 5 upgrade with
11.02.